[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hi.
I'm Lisa Garr, host of
"Gaiam Inspirations."
Can being a spiritual
leader and an activist
and a teacher of a
course in miracles
prepare a person to
run for Congress?
Well, today my guest
is Marianne Williamson,
and she is running
for a seat in the US
House of Representatives.
And she is joining
us here on Gaiam TV
to tell us why she is
running at this very
important time in history.
Thank you for being here.
>>MARIANNE WILLIAMSON: Oh,
thank you so much for having me.
>>LISA: Wow.
So what inspired
you to go from being
a spiritual leader, activist,
teacher, lecturer, 20,
25 years to running
for Congress?
>>WILLIAMSON: Well, I, like you
and millions of other people
in this country,
have been involved--
some of us for years now--
in the study and the application
of a new way of being,
a new way of seeing,
in which love
is the center of everything, in
which love harmonizes things,
in which putting
humanitarian values,
our relationships
with other people,
our concern about our children,
our concern about the planet,
the concern about
the future front
and center in our own ground of
being, how we live, what we do.
And you've seen how this kind
of revolutionary perspective
has changed everything.
It's changed the medical
model into a holistic one.
You see people
talking about seminars
on these kinds of things
related to business,
more conscious business,
conscious capitalism.
You see area after area that
has been saturated and really
uplifted and changed by
this new kind of thinking
that is taking hold.
The one area where you
don't see it is in politics.
And we're also seeing the
damage being done by the fact
that our political
system is still
dominated by the old,
calcified thought forms.
So I think it's
time for us to apply
the new thinking, the new kind
of enlightened perspective
to politics as to
everything else,
or the consequences will
continue to be perilous.
>>LISA: I wonder
sometimes if we're just
in a fishbowl with this
conversation of consciousness
and just having a
small community of us.
I mean, is it really permeating
into the mainstream population
enough for--
and I'm so glad you're running
because you are leading us
into that conversation,
just as Oprah has,
just as many have before us.
But do you think that
this is a small population
of conscious people?
>>WILLIAMSON: Well,
Paul Ray, of course,
would argue that there are
60 million people in America.
We have a little over
300 million citizens,
but 60 million are known
to read books or do
some kind of alternative
practice, yoga or so forth.
So we're not some
small, fringe movement.
This is a mainstream trend
in the country right now.
We act sometimes,
however-- certainly when
it comes to politics--
like we're a small group.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>WILLIAMSON: There was a
kind of perverse comfort zone.
I don't really have
to take part in larger
social and political
messy questions.
>>LISA: I don't want to
see the negative news.
I don't want to,
yeah, involve myself.
>>WILLIAMSON: The
truth of the matter
is, we are strong in numbers.
We are strong in vigor.
And anything we touch with our
perspective tends to change.
And it's time for us
to, I believe, own
and to claim our responsibility
as citizens as well.
>>LISA: It's interesting.
I had a conversation
with you before the show
about the fact that
politics isn't my strength.
Even though I am on a
political radio station,
I talk about
spirituality and health.
And you have empowered me
back into this conversation
that I actually do know
what I'm talking about
because I'm a citizen,
because I'm a human being.
>>WILLIAMSON:
Well, the very fact
that you said that
makes me already,
a few days into my campaign,
happy that I'm doing it.
President Eisenhower,
Dwight Eisenhower,
said politics should be
the part-time profession
of every American.
And it's true.
Politics is something that
touches you, regardless of
whether or not you touch it.
What happens
politically affects us
in issues that have to do
with our daily experience,
whether it's health
care, whether it's
the quality the air we
breathe, whether it's
the quality of the
food that we eat,
whether it's the economic
disparity that ultimately
touches all of us,
the destruction
of the middle class.
I mean, there are so
many things that we
can pretend have
nothing to do with us,
but then they absolutely
do have to do with us.
And the French say the
problem with not participating
in politics is you will end
up governed by your inferiors.
So those of us who are--
>>LISA: Interesting, yeah.
>>WILLIAMSON:
--thinking the thoughts
that we think are the most
enlightened and the most
cutting edge are
the ones who should
be the most passionate in our
discussion of political issues.
We're the last ones who should
be sitting out the process.
>>LISA: But I've always
had this perspective
that I can't possibly
permeate that structure.
I mean, write to
my congressman--
how many thousands,
millions of letters
does that guy get,
girl get, that's not
going to get to her ever?
I mean, that's my perspective.
>>WILLIAMSON: Well,
but the problem
is that your congressman does
not receive that many letters.
The problem is that your
congressman does not
receive that many phone calls.
But your congressman
does receive daily visits
from highly paid
corporate lobbyists.
So that's the point.
Too many Americans
feel that way.
>>LISA: Think this way.
>>WILLIAMSON: And the system is
invested in your thinking that.
But it's an erroneous thought.
There aren't that many
calls, that many letters that
have to go into a
congressman's office in order
for the congressman
absolutely to hear
that the constituents in
his or her district has this
or that to say.
I mean, they do
run for election,
so it does matter to them what
the constituents are saying.
>>LISA: I would think.
>>WILLIAMSON: And like I said,
highly paid corporate lobbyists
are assigned to them
all day, every day.
So the only way we can't
complain about that,
if we ourselves aren't lifting
our voices as a counterforce.
>>LISA: That's their job.
That's what they're paid to do.
And this is what we
would have to take away
from our jobs to do to
contact a congressperson.
So interesting, yeah.
>>WILLIAMSON: Why do
you say it would have
to take away from our jobs?
>>LISA: Well, because
I think, well, it's
going to distract me from being
a mom and being a working mom
and so forth to
really go in and deal
with this issue of the schools.
>>WILLIAMSON: Could we
deconstruct that a little bit?
>>LISA: Let's, yeah.
>>WILLIAMSON: OK, so as a mom,
you care what your child eats.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>WILLIAMSON: So this issue
of genetically modified foods
probably matters to you.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>WILLIAMSON: How
is that distracting
from your job as
a mother to write
an email to your congressperson
saying, I want labeling.
I want to make
sure that the fact
that these chemical
companies are
able to just pour genetically
modified foods into the food
supply--
>>LISA: I'll tell you how.
>>WILLIAMSON: That's
not distracting
from your motherhood.
It should be central
to our motherhood.
>>LISA: Because I think
it's a waste of time
because it's never going
to make a difference.
>>WILLIAMSON: OK, so I hope
that by this conversation,
you are open to the
possibility that, in fact, it's
not a waste of time.
In fact, there are only about
12 letters or 12 phone calls
that have to come
into congressperson's
office, a constituent call,
before the congressperson is
told about that, we got
quite a few letters today,
congressman or congresswoman--
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>WILLIAMSON: --about
this or that issue.
>>LISA: Wow.
Thank you for telling me that.
>>WILLIAMSON: And by the way,
some of the most regressive--
what you and I might consider
the most regressive ideas
and the people who feel
passionate about them,
they know how much it matters.
>>LISA: OK.
OK.
Wow, I'm learning a lot.
>>WILLIAMSON: The biggest
problem in our democracy today
is the distractedness
of the American citizen.
And it has two pieces to it.
One, there is a
kind of a lockout.
The system, the political
class, as it were,
is invested in your being
distracted because then they
can do whatever they want to do.
But also, there's
the fact that we now
conspire with that by not
taking part, by not calling,
by not writing.
So it's like--
>>LISA: It's time for a change.
>>WILLIAMSON: Who
knew, and now you know
and you'll do differently.
That's how this all works.
>>LISA: It's been like
that for such a long time,
that we are numb to it.
>>WILLIAMSON: Exactly.
>>LISA: And that is why
you're mixing it up.
That is why you're
calling attention
with your campaign,
which I think is--
in that way, you've already
won, Marianne, in my opinion.
So let's talk about
some of the issues.
>>WILLIAMSON: Yes.
>>LISA: What are some
of the ways that--
I know that one
of your big issues
that you're talking
about is the ways
that our rights have
been slowly taken away
and are slowly being taken away.
Can you teach me about that?
>>WILLIAMSON: Yes.
I think that sometimes
when we think of security,
we think of armies invading
or something like that.
But there are other kinds
of threats to our security.
And I think the biggest
threat to our security right
now is the slow sort of chipping
away of democratic freedoms.
Now, what is this about?
Well, what we have now is a
system of legalized corruption.
We now have a situation
where those who represent
moneyed interests, whether
it's multinational corporate
interests or individuals
with a lot of money--
money is now able to
wield an influence
on the way our government
operates, very, very
disproportionate
to the influence
that the average
citizen is able to wage.
So that when Lincoln described
the government of the people,
by the people, and
for the people,
that has now transitioned
into a government
of a few of the people,
by a few of the people,
and for a few of the people.
The two major
political parties are
both beholden to those
moneyed interests.
So if the American people
want to change this,
if the American people
want to push back
the trend by which money--
especially since the Citizens
United Supreme Court case
decision--
if the American people
want to say money will not
have an undue influence on
our political functioning
because it is an
undemocratic trend--
a Supreme Court Justice, a
late Supreme Court Justice
named Louis Brandeis
said you can either
have large amounts
of money concentrated
in the hands of only a very
few, or you can have democracy.
You cannot have both.
And that's why.
That's too much power, money
and governmental power.
So if you have government
that is beholden to the money,
you have this very
unholy alliance.
And we expect government
to be our advocates
to be resisting the
excesses of power.
So I believe-- and this is why
I'm running as an independent--
I believe that if the
American people are
going to stand up and do
an intervention, from those
of us from our kind of
community understands, well,
you have do an intervention.
And that's what I feel
my campaign represents,
is a kind of independent
voice rising up
in which we're saying to that
system, you guys take a rest.
We will take it from here.
What we need are more
people going into Congress,
absolutely making
our primary issue
this issue of building up the
kinds of interim measures,
and then ultimately, perhaps
a constitutional amendment
to get the money
out of politics.
Because whether it's our food
supply, the mass incarceration
rate, the state of
the environment,
education, or what,
no matter what it is,
the underlying cancer
is the undue influence
of money on our system.
>>LISA: Now, you wrote a book
called "The Law of Divine
Compensation."
>>WILLIAMSON: Yeah.
>>LISA: And you're not
talking out against money
or saying money is bad.
You're just saying the way
that it is handled right now
is misused.
>>WILLIAMSON: Well,
first of all, money
can heal as well as harm.
No, money is very important.
It's how we put the
food on our table.
It's how we send our
children to school.
>>LISA: It's a
reciprocal system.
>>WILLIAMSON: No.
But what we need in
America, in order
to be a free and democratic
and just society,
is that there is a circulation
of economic opportunity.
Just as the blood
needs to circulate
in the body for the
body to be healthy,
access to financial opportunity,
economic opportunity
has to circulate
within the society.
The American, we have a
system where everybody--
theoretically, you
have a chance--
every American, if
they work hard enough,
can make something
of themselves.
We all agree on that.
That's a beautiful thing.
>>LISA: That's why people
come to this country, yes.
>>WILLIAMSON: That's right.
But if you continue to narrow
the economic franchise so that
more and more people,
because of lack of access--
whether it's to health care
or bank loans or educational
opportunity--
find their material resources
and material opportunities
so narrowed, then
everybody's just
involved in just working
harder, working harder
to just stay where they are.
So we have to have economic
opportunity, and that's
why this whole idea
of 1% when you have
just a few hundred
Americans controlling
this huge majority of
our economic opportunity,
it creates an imbalance,
which is not healthy.
So this is not about, in any
way, redistributing wealth,
but it is about
redistributing opportunity.
It shouldn't be
just a few Americans
who have the access
to quality education.
Shouldn't be just a few
Americans who have access
to economic opportunity.
That's not just.
That's not democratic.
That's not the American dream.
>>LISA: No.
And I do not believe we can
continue on this way very long.
I mean, specifically
related to California,
which you are running
for, District 33 here
in California, I mean, the LAUSD
school system here has been--
so many of the programs
and the opportunities
for these children
have been taken away.
And the teacher
salaries and everything
has been so severely
cut that it is
in such a state
right now of dismay
that it's forcing people
to go to private education.
And that, of course, price is
raising higher and higher too.
So it really cannot go
on like this much longer.
>>WILLIAMSON: And that
really is the point.
It can't go on.
At what point do we,
the American people,
say enough is enough, and stop?
We must be disenthralled
of the belief
that the current system
is going to change that.
The current system--
>>LISA: Yeah, that's true.
>>WILLIAMSON: --the chokehold
that the two parties
have on the conversation,
where they're
both beholden to
that same money.
When you talk about
education, you've
got the average American
college graduate who
took out a bank loan, is
saddled by $30,000 of debt.
And also, Lisa, as
a mom, a huge issue
that we must really put front
and center and make sure it
stays there is preschool.
I don't know if
you know, but what
has happened in
the United States
is that people who
can afford it send
their little ones to preschool.
People who cannot afford it
are much less likely to send
their kids to preschool.
The child who enters
kindergarten not having
gone to preschool is
already behind on day one
of kindergarten, because the
one who went to preschool
is already starting to read.
Now, listen to this
horrific statistic.
The child who did not go
to preschool, if we do not
make sure that that child
catches up with their reading
skills within two years and
they enter the second grade not
having caught up,
they are statistically
on a 50% probability track
to incarceration sometime
in their life.
>>LISA: Oh my gosh, wow.
>>WILLIAMSON: If we then do not
catch up within two more years
by the fourth grade, you can
see a direct correlation between
how many American children
cannot read in the fourth grade
and how many prison beds
we will be building.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>WILLIAMSON: I mean, this
is morally unacceptable.
>>LISA: No, I can see
it happening because I
have a child that age.
And I could see how
when you're left behind,
it gets demoralizing
and then you start--
>>WILLIAMSON: And you
don't have enough teachers,
so the teachers have to spend
their time helping the kids who
do know how to read.
>>LISA: And then you've
got parent volunteers
in the classroom that
really aren't educators,
and they play favorites.
It's a difficult
environment, yeah.
>>WILLIAMSON: Exactly.
So we have to have
people in Congress--
>>LISA: OK.
>>WILLIAMSON: --who are saying--
we can't just be complaining
from the sidelines.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>WILLIAMSON: We can't just
be into, ain't it awful?
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>WILLIAMSON: We can't just
be-- and also, we can't just
be working from a position of
the nonprofit organizations
or the online petitions.
None of that can compensate
for unjust policy
within the government.
>>LISA: So being on
the campaign trail
and putting yourself
out there like you
are, you are going to be
expecting some criticism,
right?
You're going to be, of course--
>>WILLIAMSON: Yeah, last
week I was a crackpot.
Somebody else said it
was a vanity campaign.
I love a vanity campaign.
What's vain about
doing something
where the worst, ugliest
pictures possible of you
are going to be all
over the internet?
>>LISA: [LAUGHING]
Well, all right.
And I'm sure that
there will be--
we've seen
mudslinging, and we see
all sorts of tricks when it
comes to political campaigns
sometimes.
What does a course
in miracles teach you
on how to deal with that?
>>WILLIAMSON: Well,
the course in miracles
says in my defenselessness,
my safety lies.
If I defend myself,
I am attacked.
I spent a year or
so really thinking
very deeply about whether
or not to do this.
And one of the issues
that was central
for me was, how will I be
able to handle those things?
How will I be able to
handle the humiliation
and the embarrassment?
I've been through some of that.
People lie about you.
People take a truth, and they
embellish it to such an extent
that it's not at all
what really happened.
And I realized what
a spiritual challenge
that is to be non-reactive,
to have a thicker skin.
For me, a thin skin is
positive for me in my work,
but negative for me
in my personal life.
My thin skin helps me
in my work because I
sense what's going on.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>WILLIAMSON: But it's
been negative for me
in my personal life, where
sometimes lighten up.
>>LISA: Yeah, yeah.
>>WILLIAMSON:
Don't get reactive.
Don't get defensive.
So I realized,
well, what could be
more perfect for my own personal
growth than here is a situation
where, Marianne, your getting
reactive will not help.
Your getting defensive
will not help.
Your getting angry
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>WILLIAMSON: Keeping
your mouth shut will help.
So it's all perfect.
>>LISA: Well, this is more
than a personal growth campaign
though.
This is something that is going
to seriously challenge you.
And in a way, I've already seen
you take some of those opinions
and turn it around.
I remember someone saying, well,
what is consciousness anyway--
one of the political
pundits-- and not aware
of the conversation,
which is perfectly normal.
So you said you loved that.
>>WILLIAMSON: Well, it
reminded me of a lyric
from a Bob Dylan song,
"Something's happening here,
but you don't know what
it is, do you, Mr. Jones?"
Because when I
heard that comment,
I thought he honestly
doesn't know.
And what I had said,
he was responding
to a remark I had made that I
don't want to just represent
the interests of the
people of District 33,
I want to represent
the consciousness.
And he said, what
does that even mean?
And I thought to myself,
he honestly doesn't know.
But the point is that
enough of us do know.
And it's time for that
knowledge and that understanding
to be harnessed for
political purposes.
>>LISA: So what is that?
What does that mean?
>>WILLIAMSON: Well,
a lot of people
would take a line like
that and say that's naive.
We're a bunch of
lightweight thinkers.
I love that one, that those
of us who talk about love
is the bottom line
rather than money
is the bottom
line, relationships
as the primary
organizing principle,
really envisioning and standing
in the possibility of a world
that works for everyone.
>>LISA: You don't
see love in politics
usually in the same sentence.
>>WILLIAMSON: Well, you did
actually when I was growing up.
I mean, during the
1960s and '70s,
we sang "All You Need Is
Love" at political rallies.
The counterculture-- I don't
know how old you are-- but
the counterculture
of the '60s and '70s
was all about that--
peace sign, love
and peace, peace and love, man.
So actually, I remember a time.
Martin Luther King talked
about politics and love
in the same breath.
>>LISA: True.
>>WILLIAMSON: Bobby Kennedy
talked about love and politics
in the same breath.
The fact that the politics
has been so oversecularized
and made so dry and so
separate from human values
is the aberration.
This is new.
It's just that people who
don't remember the other
might not know that.
So I'm talking about a return
to a great American political
tradition.
You see what I'm saying?
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>WILLIAMSON: The
idea that some people
might project onto people
like us, we're naive.
My response to that
is that anybody
who thinks we can continue on
this planet and civilization
as we know it for
another 100 or 200 years
and not get back to some
fundamentals of brotherhood,
justice, and love,
they're naive.
And for the people who
would say that we're just
a bunch of lightweight
thinkers, I
would say to the so-called
serious thinkers,
look at the state
of the world today.
If this is the state that the
so-called serious thinkers have
brought us to, let's let
them take a rest for a while.
So I think that there's a
lot of upside down thinking
that it's time for us to
simply realize and forge ahead.
>>LISA: It's actually
perfect that I'm
asking these questions
because it's just
like the environmental movement.
You want to stick
your head in the sand
because it's so daunting,
and it's not here right now.
It'll be here in 100 years.
So I don't have to
worry about that.
Well, then actually that
gets to be 50 years.
And then that gets to be your
children's 50th birthday.
And then that gets to--
it gets closer and closer
and closer to home.
And then we realize we're in it.
And that's the stage that
I've gone through, personally.
And now that I'm
talking with you,
I realize that I have had my
head in the sand for a while
about a lot of these issues.
And I'm not afraid to
admit that because I
think most Americans have.
I interview them all the
time, and I speak with them
on the radio all the time.
It's where we need to wake up.
It's you who will enlighten
us to these issues.
So I want to get
back to that point
about the personal
freedoms being taken away
because we got sidetracked
onto money a little bit.
What type of other freedoms
do we not know about?
>>WILLIAMSON: Well, something
that is a hot topic today
and for good reason is this
whole idea of the NSA spying.
The president has said
that we may, we may--
I couldn't believe he said this.
We may stop spying on the
leaders of allied countries.
And the president is saying
that he didn't know--
he had assured us that the
NSA was not going that far.
So either he knew
and he's lying,
or he honestly didn't know.
Either way, it's disturbing.
So the idea of
spying on our emails,
spying on our phone
calls, and all of that--
a lot of people say,
well, if this is
what it takes to keep us safe.
But I say part of my security
is some sense of privacy.
If I know that a governmental
function is checking my emails,
it's going to, by
definition, make me
more careful in what I write.
It's going to narrow--
this is a very, very
serious subject.
We also have things like the
National Defense Authorization
Act, which made it possible to
arrest Americans on basically
just because they think you
might have done something.
So these kinds of things, these
kinds of civil liberties issues
are extremely important
because what's
happening is that there is a
way that the system is saying,
we have to do this to keep
you safe from terrorism.
But then the question becomes,
when will that no longer
be a reason?
So I think it's all about
the American citizens
being awake, having a
healthy skepticism so
that the government knows
that we're watching,
so that it will be an
appropriate balance and not
just what many of us feel is
an overreaching on their part.
>>LISA: But do you really
feel, as a congressperson,
that you could penetrate
those systems that
are set up by the government?
>>WILLIAMSON: Well,
one congressperson.
It's not like I'm going
to have a magic wand.
There are 435 congresspeople.
And it's not like if I win, I
go in with a magic wand, voila,
things will be different.
>>LISA: You're right.
>>WILLIAMSON: But
the conversation--
you and I know a
conversation matters.
There are people who
listen to your show.
There's a new
conversation in their head
because of the new conversation
they heard on your show.
And I believe that there are
many people in Congress already
who would love to have
a new conversation,
having a difficult time because
the system itself mitigates
against it.
But what we have to do is
stand in possibility thinking,
stand within a
possibility conversation
in the halls of Congress.
That's the thing.
We can't just do
it on the outside.
Sometimes people
have said to me,
are you just trying to
start a conversation?
Lisa, I've been helping start
a conversation for 30 years.
If all I want to do is
have a conversation,
I don't need to run for office.
This is about having
that conversation
in that city, in that
building, in those chairs.
>>LISA: But you looked
at the big money
interests that are in there.
I mean, look at
the GMO initiative.
It did not go through because
of major money influence.
>>WILLIAMSON: Exactly.
And Barbara Boxer, who is
obviously a California senator,
has proposed the bill in
the Senate about labeling.
There need to be more and more
congressional voices supporting
that.
And as I said earlier, until we
get the money out of politics,
not going to happen.
That's why this is the
biggest issue of all.
>>LISA: And maybe getting
the money out of politics
will never happen either.
However--
>>WILLIAMSON: No, no, no.
No, no, don't even say that.
That's like somebody
saying, well,
maybe it won't ever happen
that we abolish slavery.
No, it will happen.
>>LISA: Well, what I mean, it
will never completely go away.
>>WILLIAMSON: Well, we want
to have an appropriate--
>>LISA: Well, what I'm saying
is that this is a stairstep
approach, is that
what you're doing here
is you're introducing
the conversation.
It's getting deeper,
it's getting deeper.
And it's starting
to make an impact,
like the GMO initiative did.
>>WILLIAMSON: Well,
wait a minute.
We're already further
into that conversation
than you might think.
We had the open
primaries in California,
that effort in California,
in Iowa, and Florida.
>>LISA: Yeah, that's true.
>>WILLIAMSON: People
are facing the issue
of the politicized
gerrymandering.
Some places like New
York City is already
working with one system about
public financing of campaigns.
There is a conversation,
fair and equal,
a move to amend, as
well as in Congress
about a constitutional
amendment.
So it's not like I'm going to
go in and start a conversation.
I want my voice to contribute to
a conversation that is already
happening.
And I think the most sober
appraisal of this issue
is not, well, that
will never happen.
The sober appraisal
of that issue
is that we must take
a move legislatively
to get the money
out of politics,
or we will lose our democracy.
>>LISA: OK.
Thank you for saying that.
You're the best person
to ask about this,
because how long did it take
to end the women's suffrage
movement?
>>WILLIAMSON: Well.
>>LISA: How long did it take
to end or abolish slavery,
how long?
>>WILLIAMSON: These things
do not happen overnight.
They take years.
You look at someone like
Susan B. Anthony, devoted
her whole life to
women's suffrage.
And she herself died before the
passage of the 19th Amendment
in 1921.
The point is that even though it
takes a while, it's not like--
a constitutional amendment
is a long process,
but there are interim steps
to that, such as those
I mentioned, such as the
American anti-corruption
project that is going on.
The more of us get involved
in the conversation,
know what's happening
on the state levels,
know what's happening, I believe
this is the moral challenge
of our life.
This is the moral
challenge of our lifetime.
If we do not get the
corrupt influence
of money out of our politics,
we are losing democracy.
And I don't think
that's an overstatement.
And I don't think any
serious person sees it
as an overstatement.
>>LISA: Well,
obviously the people
do not who came to the
announcement that you made.
I want you to take a
look at this short clip
that we have of 12
minutes of applause
when Marianne made her
announcement that she
was running for Congress.
Take a look.
[APPLAUSE]
>>WILLIAMSON: I am
officially a candidate
for a seat in the US House of
Representatives, California
District 33.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
Thank you, thank you.
>>LISA: OK, so what area
does your district cover?
What does District 33 cover?
>>WILLIAMSON: Well, you
start up north at Malibu.
It goes all the way down
to Rancho Palos Verdes.
So that goes through Venice
and Santa Monica and Manhattan
Beach and Redondo Beach and
all of those places like that.
Then you come east.
You've got Pacific Palisades,
Brentwood, part of Westwood,
Beverly Hills, Bel
Air, and all the way
into a little bit in
there, all the way east,
all the way at one
point to La Brea.
So it's a big
district, but I think
it's an exciting district.
I think some of the most
creative people in our country
live in this district.
>>LISA: It's a
progressive district.
>>WILLIAMSON: Yeah, and
it's a district that's
not only progressive
politically,
it's progressive spiritually.
It's progressive--
>>LISA: Creatively.
>>WILLIAMSON: Exactly.
Many people are involved
in the kinds of ideas,
read the kind of books
that we talk about
and are really interested in
marrying the two conversations.
>>LISA: Absolutely, absolutely.
So I mean, I know the areas.
>>WILLIAMSON: Calabasas--
we were talking earlier
about Calabasas, Topanga Canyon.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>WILLIAMSON: Westlake.
So how do you
choose which issues
to highlight in your campaign
in this particular district?
>>WILLIAMSON: Well,
I'm not in this
to do anything other
than speak my heart.
So I'm not deciding
what issues to discuss
based on some strategic
political calculation.
I'm talking about what
I care about as a woman
and as an American.
That has guided me
throughout my career.
And I'm not changing
careers here.
I'm just extending topics.
Speaking from my heart
has worked for me,
and I don't plan to stop that.
>>LISA: No.
[CHUCKLING]
>>WILLIAMSON: I remember
reading in an Arnold Patent book
many years ago, if you
genuinely have something to say,
there's someone out there who
genuinely needs to hear it.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>WILLIAMSON: So I feel strongly
the corruption of our food
supply is perilous.
I mean, the chemical
companies and the big ag
has basically interrupt--
I mean, they've changed
America's food supply,
the food chain.
This is huge.
>>LISA: Huge, that's why there's
so many food intolerances
and allergies.
>>WILLIAMSON: Mass
incarceration.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>WILLIAMSON: We have
2.4 million people
in prison in the United States.
Lisa, that's the
highest incarceration
rate of any country
in the world,
higher than Russia,
higher than China.
We have the highest
incarceration rate.
We have 2.4 million.
Now, during the 1970s, we
had 300,000 people in prison.
And out of the people in prison
in the States, 500,000 of those
are nonviolent drug offenders.
This whole war on drugs has been
a complete, complete failure.
It was politically motivated
from the beginning.
It has actually done
more to spread drugs
than to limit drugs
in this country.
It is decimated neighborhoods.
It has decimated the
relationship between people
and law enforcement.
I think we should
legalize marijuana.
decriminalize most other drugs.
And issues like this, you've
got your environmental issues
where I believe that the debate
about whether or not climate
change is real--
not only should this
debate be declared over,
but I think, as many
people do, that the issue
of climate change and the
perils that it represents
are a clear and present
danger to life on Earth.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>WILLIAMSON: But once
again, all of this
underneath, getting
money out of politics.
>>LISA: Well, let's go back to
the legalization of marijuana
and the war on drugs.
Explain to me why
you feel that that's
the root cause of the
high incarceration rate.
>>WILLIAMSON: First
of all, I'm not
saying that the war
on drugs is the reason
for the high incarceration rate.
Although the high incarceration
rate-- there's a woman
named Michelle Alexander
who's written a book.
And she talks about what
she terms "the cradle
to prison pipeline."
And I mentioned to you earlier
about the fourth graders
who couldn't read.
So whenever you have the
disadvantaged communities,
children who cannot read,
it's like a pipeline,
the statistical trend
towards incarceration.
But the issue on drugs had
to do-- what I was mentioning
was the 500,000 people
who are nonviolent drug
offenders in the United States.
I mean, do you
really want somebody
in prison for marijuana
at this point, really?
>>LISA: That will
completely change the course
of their life, completely.
They will not be
able to get jobs.
They will not be able to--
>>WILLIAMSON: That's
exactly right.
>>LISA: So it would
take that system
in a different direction.
>>WILLIAMSON: Well, all of
this is a new conversation.
I mean, sometimes
even the best--
one of the reasons I believe
independent candidacies
like mine are so important
is because even people
who are fighting the good
fight within the system
as it is, they're still locked
in a conversation which itself
doesn't lead to the
real breakthroughs
that we need here.
It's not taking on the subjects
like mass incarceration.
You have a major
conversation in the country
about mass
incarceration, but not
inside the halls of Congress.
You have a major conversation
about some of these issues,
but not yet inside
the halls of Congress.
It's bleeding through
about food, about GMOs,
and corruption of
the food supply.
>>LISA: Finally.
>>WILLIAMSON: But not
the way it needs to.
And one of the reasons
is because this system
as it is, there is this illusion
of a kind of political class.
And as I was saying to
you, we conspire with that
by seeing ourselves as separate.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>WILLIAMSON: But there's
a kind of lockout.
And one of the ways that
there is a lockout is, first
of all, how expensive it
is to run for office, which
is why public funding is so
necessary-- how expensive it
is to run for office and
also who the system deems
is qualified.
Now, to me what's fascinating
in our constitution
is often what the
founders did not say.
Do you know, even before the
election of the president,
someone to run for president
in the United States,
they have to be
35 or older, they
have to have been
born here, and they
have to have lived here
for 14 consecutive years.
The founders did
not say had to have
been in the House
of Representatives
for four years, had to have
been a senator at least once,
had to have been a governor.
The founders left it
to every generation
to determine for
themselves what skill set
they felt was most necessary.
Now, the system as
it is deems somebody
who's been in finance, somebody
who's been in government--
>>LISA: Military.
>>WILLIAMSON: Whereas they would
look at someone like yourself--
some of the people
who are saying,
I'm speaking as a mother.
I'm speaking as someone who is
concerned about the children.
I'm speaking as a teacher.
I'm speaking as an activist.
I'm speaking as a scientist.
It's almost like a lockout.
This is the level on
which we need to challenge
the current system.
You can't put new
wine in old bottles.
We can't just keep trying
to elect candidates who are
the best within that system.
We need to start electing
candidates who are really
willing to have a new
conversation because what
we think is what then
determines our behavior.
And that's true of an
institution, as well as
an individual.
>>LISA: Well, when
you see candidate
that has financial manager
as opposed to candidate
that is family budget planner.
[CHUCKLING] You go
towards the person that
tends to be more credible,
I mean, with their career.
What you're saying is to
change the conversation
and say that this person who
is the family budget planner
might just be as qualified
as the person who's
a financial analyst.
>>WILLIAMSON: That's
exactly what I'm saying.
What makes them less credible?
Honestly, why would
you be less credible?
>>LISA: Oh, no.
>>WILLIAMSON: Really?
>>LISA: [LAUGHING] The family
budget planner does a lot.
>>WILLIAMSON: Thank
you, thank you.
Mahatma Gandhi spoke about that.
Someone who knows how
to run a household
is someone who knows
how to run a nation.
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>WILLIAMSON: And the fact
that we'd been made to feel
and we've been conspired.
And as women, this
is such an issue.
We're just little--
they're sweet.
It's a very condescending,
patronizing attitude,
like you don't know,
from people who
have gotten us to where we are.
Who is it who doesn't know here?
>>LISA: It's generational change
that you're talking about here
that we're going through.
>>WILLIAMSON: Well, we
have to speed it up now.
>>LISA: You're
speeding it up, yes.
>>WILLIAMSON: It's
been long enough now.
I think women-- women, back in
1921, we got the right to vote.
And the suffragettes such
as Elizabeth Cady Stanton,
Susan B. Anthony,
and others assumed
we would just flood the system
as soon as we had the right.
But when it comes to
institutional change,
just like with personal change,
sometimes the external change
happens, but then
takes time for us
to emotionally and
psychologically inhabit
the space of that change.
And now, it's time
for American women
not just to have certain
powers, but to own those powers.
And that begins by when you said
to me earlier today something
like, politics is
outside your element.
And I said, never
say that again.
>>LISA: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>>WILLIAMSON: Politics
is everybody's business.
>>LISA: As I see you stepping
up in your role as a leader,
I am able to mirror
that myself and step up.
So you are serving
as an example to many
in stepping up outside
of their comfort zone
into something that they
really do know about
and are poised to do.
So you're--
>>WILLIAMSON: That's my
hope for this campaign.
>>LISA: --a wonderful
representative that way.
>>WILLIAMSON: Thank you, Lisa.
And that's my hope, is that many
people will feel enrolled here.
Because this is so much
bigger than one woman getting
elected to Congress.
This is a sea change having
to do with many people seeing
things differently, knowing
that this is an effort all of us
are making for really a new
politics in the United States.
>>LISA: Well, you have
quite a lot of supporters,
as we saw in that one clip.
And I know that in this
particular movement
of consciousness media, I know
that you have always been very
well received in this movement.
And you've always
spoken your truth.
I've seen you many,
many different times
over the last decade.
In a media
conference, I saw you.
And you came up and you
said, this is all BS.
[LAUGHING]
There needs to be
more women in media.
There needs to be more
aged women in media.
It was great.
So let's talk about
campaign fundraising,
and how do you plan on
funding this campaign?
It's not a small project.
>>WILLIAMSON: Well,
as I said, one
of the ways that the average
citizen is locked out
is through how
much money it costs
to run for office,
which will be true
until we get public
financing, which is the money
and politics issue.
Because I'm part of
this larger community,
I'm hoping I will
receive support,
such as what I'm
receiving from you.
If everybody who reads
the kind of books
we read who resonates with
what we're talking about here
sends $5, I can be competitive.
>>LISA: OK.
>>WILLIAMSON: And if people go
to marianneforcongress.com--
I think sometimes
people feel, well, I
can't give more than 25 bucks,
or I can't give more than $5,
that's fine.
>>LISA: Do it.
>>WILLIAMSON: Give what
in your heart feels right.
So people from all
over the country
who feel this is something--
I want to see a
campaign like this.
candidacy like this.
>>LISA: This is a
grassroots campaign.
>>WILLIAMSON: Absolutely.
And if everybody who feels
that way does send at least $5,
I can be competitive.
And it does cost
millions of dollars.
There's no doubt about it.
>>LISA: Well, that's how
grassroots campaigns are
started.
That's how the GMO
campaign was started.
That's how many of our
grassroots campaigns have been.
Now, they're getting into
Congress, which is incredible.
All right, well,
you have been very
popular with infusing the
conversation of politics
into spirituality and
vice versa, spirituality
into politics.
We're going to take a look
here at a clip of Marianne
talking at--
a recent conversation
that she had at a church.
Take a look.
>>WILLIAMSON: And in the
history of the United States,
we were born of the
notion of possibility.
Now, that notion of
possibility that we
could be founded as a democracy,
that we could be founded
on a notion which is truly an
exceptional notion, that it
didn't matter who
your parents were.
It didn't matter what
your education was.
It didn't matter
what your money was,
that we would create a context
where from our perspective,
self-actualization
would be possible.
That is what it stood
for, novus ordo seclorum,
new order of the ages.
This was not only radical.
It was radical then.
It's radical now.
It was not only radical
in political terms.
It's radical in philosophical
and spiritual terms.
It's truly to create
a space on Earth
to the best of our ability where
the human soul could express
itself however it wishes.
So democracy represents
a spiritual impulse.
Now, from the
beginning, as we know,
it's not news to anyone
most of the signers
of the Declaration
of Independence
were themselves slave owners.
And by the way, the irony of
this was not lost on them.
Jefferson's line, "I
tremble for my country
when I consider God is just
and that his justice shall not
sleep forever."
So the political narrative, the
journey of the United States
has been and continues to be--
in this generation as much
as any other--
between the forces
represented by people
who would like to limit
the actual embodiment
or full manifestation of the
extraordinary possibilities
of democracy versus
those who would say, no,
let's make it real.
It's not just white people.
It's not just men.
It's not just this group.
It's everybody.
If God created everyone equal,
if all are created equal,
that doesn't just mean men.
That doesn't just mean whites.
It doesn't just mean anything.
It doesn't just mean the rich.
It doesn't just mean
straight people.
And I think one of the frontiers
for American understanding
is that we really get clearly,
it doesn't just mean Americans
if God created everyone equal.
And so it is a
spiritual expansion
represented by
our fuller embrace
of what democracy actually is.
And once again,
in our generation
as much as any other, there
are those who would say,
whoa, whoa, whoa, we don't
want everybody voting.
[LAUGHTER]
And things like that.
We have, as we know, over
the last few decades,
through corporate subsidies,
tax breaks, et cetera--
we have actually accumulated--
we have systematically
taken the majority
of the material
resources of the
country and moved
them very systematically into
what represents basically
the hands of the very few so
that we now have 1% controlling
42% of our wealth.
When we think of the first
principles of the United
States, we think of
the Constitution.
We think of the
Declaration of Independence
and also Lincoln's famous adage
in the Gettysburg Address,
that these men at Gettysburg
had not died in vain,
but so that there could
be a rebirth of freedom,
and then his extraordinary
phrase that government
of the people, by the
people, and for the people
would not perish from the earth.
Well, I think it's really
important for all of us
to be very clear.
If we are going to change the
social agreement in the United
States of America from
government of the people,
by the people,
and for the people
to government of a few of the
people, by a few of the people,
for a few of the people, we need
to have a debate about that.
[LAUGHTER]
[APPLAUSE]
>>LISA: Since you are at the
forefront of infusing politics
and spirituality
together, how do you
propose to bring that
conversation into Congress?
>>WILLIAMSON: Well,
spirituality is simply the quest
for living from the heart.
And the problem with
our political system,
with our civilization
is that we are
ordered according to
economic principle rather
than humanitarian values.
We make money rather than
love the bottom line.
And because of the
undue influence
of money on our system,
because of the flood
of corporate lobbyists and
other wealthy individuals who
are able to affect our
system the way they are,
I want to be someone--
and there are
others, by the way.
It's not like there aren't
people in the US Congress today
who are standing up for
humanitarian values,
because there are.
I want, however, to add my
voice in the most passionate way
to those who are saying
that the moneyed interests
of a small sector of
our society should not
be placed over the
interests of our children
who need to go to preschool,
our children who need a better
education, our children
who need quality food that
is uncorrupted by GMOs, by our
children who need quality air.
I'll give you an
example of something
that I found just shocking.
We have no air quality
safety standards
in our public schools, Lisa.
And 40% of all teachers and
students at our public schools
are already known to
be adversely affected
in their respiratory
systems, asthma, et cetera.
So we continue to give
subsidies and tax breaks
to the wealthiest
Americans, which
is sucking money and economic
resources out of our budget
that we could be using on
taking care of our people.
That's what Lincoln meant by
a government of the people,
by the people, and for
the people, this idea
that if we give the
money to the very rich,
that that will create jobs.
It's just an illusion.
It's not even true.
The people who say it
know it's not true.
Because jobs come
from the middle
class, people who are
thriving in their lives.
The majority of
jobs in America come
from situations like yours,
where you had this television
situation, a radio station.
This is where jobs
are created from.
>>LISA: Well, I mean, I
also think about OSHA,
the environmental
organization that does go in.
I mean, I know some
people who work for OSHA.
And they're, again,
middle class,
working citizens, hardworking.
One particularly has
an autistic child.
And there's a situation where
those people are trying to make
and penetrate the systems
that they sometimes cannot get
through to.
>>WILLIAMSON: Exactly right,
because a lot of these--
it was Richard Nixon who set
up the Environmental Protection
Agency.
I mean, he was a
Republican president.
>>LISA: In the '60s, yeah.
>>WILLIAMSON: But the country
has gone so far to the right
now that what used to be the
right is now the far right,
and what used to be the left
in governmental functioning
is pretty centrist.
So a lot of these agencies
that were actually set up
with the purpose of
advocating for the people
against the excesses
of certain industries
now consider themselves
as having a dual role
at best and sometimes almost
completely to advocate
for those industries.
The government needs
to work for the people.
We're talking about a change
in the basic social contract
that every American has
the right to expect.
And that's government of
the people, by the people,
and for the people.
>>LISA: So you used
to be a Democrat.
Now, you've swung towards the
center, the Independent Party.
>>WILLIAMSON: I've been
a Democrat all my life.
And if I win, I will
caucus with Democrats.
I have a Democrat's heart.
But I gotta tell you something.
We have got to have
a new conversation
now because it's
become so corrupted,
Republican versus Democrat.
And the things that
upset me about money,
I'm concerned about
some of the places
where they're way
too much the same.
That's why I think if we have
20 independent candidates, if we
have 20 independent congressmen
in the US House, that
will change everything.
So I believe that right now--
>>LISA: How many are there now?
>>WILLIAMSON: Well,
there aren't any.
There are two independent
senators, Bernie Sanders
and Angus King.
If we have independent
voices-- and there's
nothing about in our
constitution about two parties.
You know what I always say?
In some countries, they have
only two brands of toothpaste,
but 14 brands of
political party.
In our country, we
have so much choice
when it comes to toothpaste
and sneakers and T-shirts.
It's like we're not really--
hello.
It's not really penetrating
that even though we
have a lot of brands
of toothpaste,
we only have two brands
of political voice.
>>LISA: Well, every election
you see the red states
and blue states,
the red states--
and you don't see
the green states.
>>WILLIAMSON: And yet, there's
something coming up from
the bottom of things,
from our hearts,
from our subconscious that wants
to have a conversation separate
from the one either one
of them are having--
a new kind of synthesis,
a new kind of bottom line,
a new kind of stepping into
a vision and possibility
that that system
does not account for.
So abolition didn't come
from a major political party.
Women's suffragettes didn't come
Social security didn't even come
from a major political party.
So often in the
history of the United
States and our major
movements forward,
it was movements
that did not come
through the political parties.
Came from the people, and
then the political parties
came along.
For us to expect the
political parties to lead us,
to really deliver us to the new
conversation, is naive at best.
>>LISA: If anyone
could do it, you
could because you are
steeped in that conversation.
>>WILLIAMSON: I don't
know if I can, but we can.
>>LISA: Well, good point.
Thank you for saying that.
Now, if you do get
into Congress--
and I should say when you get
into Congress-- what would
you do?
I mean, what would
be your first step,
and where would you start
if you got into this seat?
>>WILLIAMSON: Well, as I
said, what I will be saying
throughout this campaign and
if I have the honor of being
elected, I will certainly
live up to what I'm saying--
I will become involved
with everything
possible having to do with
the interim steps, all the way
up to and including the move
for a constitutional amendment
to get the influence of
money out of our politics.
And I will have a
platform that I will not
have if I'm not elected,
both within the Congress,
as well as throughout
the community,
in the country, the people
that I can talk to about that.
The derivative
issues, of course,
having to do with
mass incarceration,
having to do with the
corruption of our food supply,
having to do with preschool,
having to do with free college.
You have one major
political party
who just doesn't want
help these kids at all.
You have another major
political party trying
to lower the interest rates.
I think there should be free
college in this country.
Oregon is already-- for
the capable students
who live up to the
standards necessary.
>>LISA: Isn't that what
financial aid does?
>>WILLIAMSON: No, financial aid,
still you have to pay it back.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>WILLIAMSON: Oregon has
already created a system
where we could enable
the kids who deserve it,
who worked for it, who
are keeping up that,
and then the system,
for instance, I
think that Oregon is trying
has to do with a 2% or 3%
that they would pay back, paying
it forward when they leave.
>>LISA: I see.
>>WILLIAMSON:
Because if you really
want to stimulate
your economy, what you
want more than anything
is more educated people.
>>LISA: Education, yes, yes.
>>WILLIAMSON: And more
people who come out of school
ready to form their
own $6 million
company if they
put out the effort.
>>LISA: That's the
way of our future.
>>WILLIAMSON: I think these
are the kinds of conversations
that I will be having.
>>LISA: And now, what about
the Department of Peace?
Is it currently in place?
>>WILLIAMSON: Well, yes.
When Dennis Kucinich
was a congressman,
he started the Department of
Peace campaign legislation.
And it is now taken
over by Barbara Lee.
It is now called the
Department of Peace building.
I would certainly be a
sponsor of that bill.
It's a very important bill that
I've been part of the campaign
to support that for years now.
It would be an executive
branch department
that articulates and
facilitates and researches
nonviolent problem
solving options
for both domestic and
international conflict.
Right now, we have the
Defense Department,
and we have the
State Department.
The Defense Department
could be likened
to visiting your surgeon.
If you need an invasive
surgery, you go to your doctor.
So if we feel that invasive
military measures are the best,
you would go to the
Defense Department.
But what we all know
now is you don't just
rush to your surgeon.
You find out first, is there
any other way I could fix this?
>>LISA: Preventative
medicine, yes.
>>WILLIAMSON: Yes, preventative.
How could nutrition help?
How could psychological
issues help?
We have a holistic paradigm now.
We need that in
politics as well.
So the president
should be consulted
by those who have scoured
the country for the best
practices, techniques having
to do with nonviolent options.
And also, the state
people say, what
about the State Department?
But the State
Department, first of all,
only deals with
international conflict.
Department of Peace would
be domestic, as well as
international.
And also, the diplomatic
efforts of the State Department
is very important as they are,
which should be increased,
by the way, much
more well funded.
Still have to do with
government to government.
And the healing, Lisa,
is people to people.
>>LISA: Oh, yes.
>>WILLIAMSON: So what are the
ways that we can dismantle--
Franklin Roosevelt said we
need to do more than end war.
We need to end the
beginnings of all wars.
So what the holistic
paradigm and also
the transformational
community is well versed
in is the idea
that you can't just
wait for a symptom to
erupt and then just try
to eradicate it or suppress it.
You deal with causal
issues of disease,
and we must deal with causal
issues of social disease
as well.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>WILLIAMSON: There's no reason
not to expect desperate people
to do desperate things.
Large groups of desperate people
are a national security risk.
So for us to address
desperate people,
to address the issues
of hunger, to address
the issues of hopelessness,
to address the issues of lack
of financial opportunity--
this is not just
some bleeding heart nice thing.
This is about taking care of our
own country and our own world,
because otherwise, the eruption
of violence in those situations
is becoming more and more
reasonable to expect.
>>LISA: Well, you're
functioning here
from a place of
systemic problems
rather than the symptoms.
>>WILLIAMSON: And that's
the new conversation.
The old conversation is
all about the symptoms.
And the new conversation
is a systemic healing.
>>LISA: Same with
medicine, absolutely.
>>WILLIAMSON: Same thing.
>>LISA: Absolutely, yes.
So let me ask you this question.
What would happen if
you don't get elected?
How will you continue on?
>>WILLIAMSON: I feel a calling
in my heart to do this,
to run this race.
And I'm running it with all
intention and commitment
to doing what I can to winning.
And in democracy, the
people will decide,
and that's how it should be.
There's no guarantee.
Anytime you have an election
where the end is guaranteed,
that's called totalitarian.
It's called a rigged system.
So it's totally fine that
the people will decide.
However, I believe very strongly
that if we do this well,
if enough of us who
resonate with these ideas
are involved in this campaign
and work this campaign,
we will create
something beautiful.
And then what we are to
do with that energy--
if I win, we know what
we're to do with the energy.
If we do not win
this particular race,
the same calling of the heart
that has directed us to do this
will direct us what to do next.
But this thing is happening.
This revolution of thought
has already happened.
It's already saturated other
areas of our civilization,
and it is going to saturate
politics because so many of us
are waking up to
the need for it.
This government can't even
keep the government open.
And people know it's
time to try another way.
>>LISA: As I said, by just
having this conversation,
in my opinion,
you've already won
because we have a start here.
We have somebody who
is in this position who
is bringing this conversation
up into a political platform,
which usually happens
on a grassroots level.
So you're making grassroots
the new politics.
>>WILLIAMSON: The
conversation and the effort.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>WILLIAMSON: The
conversation and the effort.
>>LISA: Yes.
You've always been
really good about that,
is paying attention to the
specific things that I say
and reforming them.
And that's what you're doing.
>>WILLIAMSON: Well,
I'm just saying
if we just talk about it,
that won't win an election.
But if we talk about it
and then pick up the phone,
talk about it, and then have
a house party, talk about it,
and then send $5, talk about
it, and talk to your friends
about it too--
moving a little bit past
the habits that we have now.
Alexis de Tocqueville talked
about the habits of democracy.
Too many of us have lost
the habit of democracy.
We're not putting ourselves
out there the way we might.
And like you said, we're waking
up, and we're ready to do that.
And I feel that this campaign
will be a container for that.
>>LISA: Well, this is like--
you talk about health
from the inside out.
This is politics
>>WILLIAMSON: That's right.
>>LISA: Because unless you are
completely firm with not having
more in your own life and
more in your own household,
you cannot go out and talk about
not having more in our country.
So it's definitely something.
How do you plan on keeping up
with your own personal issues
and physical issues
during the campaign?
Do you plan on staying
strong and staying healthy
just like you're talking
about our country being?
>>WILLIAMSON: As
I said, it took me
a year of deep inquiry
inside my heart.
>>LISA: I hope so.
>>WILLIAMSON: I have a daughter.
She was very involved in
this conversation with me--
my closest friends, people
like yourself, Lisa.
I remember talking to you with a
group of people, really asking,
what do you think, guys?
Do you think that there
will be the support here?
Do you think the
energy is there?
I explored.
And I feel there is.
Before we got on
here today, you were
suggesting the place I
should go for herbal remedies
for my cough.
I appreciate that.
I'm feeling that.
Enough of us feel like, OK,
my life is together enough.
I'm also thinking
about those around me
and the people who are
doing the things I support.
So I'm taking in the love
of friends and family
and supporters,
and doing my best
and will continue to do so.
>>LISA: And we will
always be here.
[LAUGHING]
>>WILLIAMSON: Thank you.
Thank you so much.
>>LISA: Absolutely, absolutely.
Well, thank you so
much for being here.
What you're doing is
a huge contribution.
>>WILLIAMSON: Thank you, Lisa.
>>LISA: Is there
anything that you
want to say, in
terms of parting,
that you can direct
people to do?
>>WILLIAMSON: All I
would say is that there
was one thing you said to
me on this program, which
was the pivotal factor.
You said something like, we were
in a stupor, but we're not now.
I was asleep to something,
and I'm not now.
>>LISA: Yes, yes, had
my head in the sand.
Yes.
Yeah.
>>WILLIAMSON: That's it.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>WILLIAMSON: It's just
that tweet from my head
was in the sand,
and it's not now.
>>LISA: And I tend to
be a very aware person.
[LAUGHING]
>>WILLIAMSON: Hello.
You're aware, so.
>>LISA: Yes.
[LAUGHTER]
>>WILLIAMSON: Still have
politics out, no more.
>>LISA: Exactly.
>>WILLIAMSON: No more.
>>WILLIAMSON: Not that one.
>>LISA: I'm just going to
talk about what I know about
and not branch out.
This is a scary conversation.
>>WILLIAMSON: My mother said to
me once-- my late mother said,
you're the only person I know
who put save democracy on her
to do list.
I think all of us need to
put save democracy on our
to do list.
And that's
marianneforcongress.com.
>>LISA: Right underneath
save the world.
>>WILLIAMSON: Yeah.
As long as it's not underneath
mani and pedi this week.
>>LISA: [LAUGHING]
Well, I hope you continue to
support yourself while you're
supporting us and the country.
>>WILLIAMSON: Thank you.
>>LISA: And we will
continue to support you.
>>WILLIAMSON: Thank you.
Your prayers are appreciated.
>>LISA: Yes, absolutely.
And before and
after the campaign,
as this interview will
continue to last beyond,
you have served as an
inspiration to many of us
just by stepping up.
>>WILLIAMSON: Thank you.
>>LISA: Just by being here.
And so that is what I'm talking
about supporting you for,
is your initiative,
your being present,
your willing to be a leader and
step out of your comfort zone
to be a leader, which actually
looks like your comfort zone.
So you're fine.
>>WILLIAMSON: Well, that's where
the magic happens, outside.
Believe me, this is stepping
out of my comfort zone
in many ways.
>>LISA: Well, the
magic happens when
you step up to be a leader.
Yeah.
That's exactly what this show is
all about, is stepping up to be
a leader.
So thank you so much.
>>WILLIAMSON: Thank you.
>>LISA: Yes, absolutely.
>>WILLIAMSON: God
bless you, honey.
Thank you.
>>LISA: You too.
You too.
If you'd like to watch
a replay of my interview
with Marianne Williamson or
share it with your friends,
go to gaiamtv.com.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]